Have you ever thought about being watched while browsing? People started to have a general idea of their traces being recorded online. Nonetheless, few ever truly understand to what extent big tech companies are extracting our data-- from which link we click, for how long we stay on a single page, to who we interact with on social media platforms. Every single piece of information is being recorded. In addition to that, through data analyzing, they can even manipulate our interaction online. In other words, our daily lives seem to be controlled by a giant ghost behind the web. This project aims to convey this notion through having a physical presence of a gollum above their browser that is constantly watching their behaviors, manipulating what can be seen.

When the users start to run the chrome extension, the pages will change to dark mode. For instance, when users open the new tabs, they will feel like they are watched over by the “web ghost”. The head of the ghost will float on the top of the browser, and his hands will float on the sides. The eyes of the ghost will move with the mouse. When the users want to close the tab, there will be a “close door” animation -- the hands moving toward the center of the screen and close the door, and the page will not be closed until the door is fully closed. When people want to open a new tab, there will be the “open door” animation, which is similar to the “close door” one. Beside that, all the pictures on the pages will be changed into eyes, which means that you are monitored by someone all the time.
